---
layout: page
title: "About"
description: "This is what I do."
header-img: "img/about-bg.jpg"
---
# About the name
**LibreMente**, what does this mean? 
Let's try to dissect it.
* The first part is [**Libre**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Libre_(word)) comes from Spanish and means *Free*.
> Free as in free beer, not in price (cit. RMS)

* The second part, [**Mente**](https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mente), comes from Italian and it means *Mind*.
* The combination of the two, **libremente**, is an adverb, still in Spanish, meaning *Freely*.
            
Probably there can't be a better name to describe me and this blog!

# About me 
This blog is being written in *Stanford, Palo Alto, California.*

# About the blog
This blog is written using the following set of tools:
* Text editor -> currently using vim.
* jekyll serve for local debugging and testing.
* Github pages for remote serving.
            
And that's about it! I just need to write some markdown and push to Github which, using [*Jekyll*](https://jekyllrb.com)
generates the HTML. Style is written in LESS which compiles to CSS and that's it!

# Purpose 
Every single word written in here has to be interpreted as my own personal point of view, nothing more than that. 
I claim no responsibility on damages caused to machines and/or people generated by this blog. If you try a *dd* command
in your shell, please do it just if you know what you are doing, I don't want to be accused of wiping hard disks all over 
the planet! 

# Typos
I *hate* typos, especially if I see them in important website around the web. However, since I am not a perfect robot and, 
most important, I am not a native English speaker, please forgive me if you see a typo around here and notify me! Or make a PR 
on Github, that could be awesome! And if you're near, I'll definitely buy you a beer ;)

To try to correct typos I run [*Aspell*](http://aspell.net) before pushing, if you don't know it please check it out!
	
