---
layout:     post
title:      "#Tip of the day: forensic!"
date:       2016-07-13 00:00:00
author:     "surF"
header-img: "img/code-bg.jpg"
---

Today a friend of mine appeared at my place screaming 

>I've lost all my thesis!!! Please help me!

so, fresh after finishing my last [International Summer
School](http://studyitin.ee/c3s) in Digital
Forensic and Cyber Security, I immediately started to draw an attack plan.

What happened?
He was working on his shining OpenOffice 4._something_ while suddenly a blackout
hit the house and his PC stopped working.
When he rebooted he found the file, tried to recover using the OO tool but
nothing, he lost his entire thesis (*why people still write the thesis on OO??
Go learn [LaTeX](https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/LaTeX) please!!!*)



Where to start?

I had:

* complete access to the machine (it was switched off).
* no encryption on disks.

Without an appropriate tool for working on the hard disk with write block I had
to go back to the roots, attach with a SATA connector the HDD and `dd` from my
Debian box. 

But, in the meanwhile, he told me that another friend _previously_ had tried to
use a _Windows_ tool but he had a I/O error and could not finish the job.
Strange, isn't it?
The guy probably worked `live` on the mounted partition, which is something I have
learnt to avoid as much as possible, but let's see if this could somehow have damaged
the system or not.

`dd` worked but yeah, at 3,2GB there was a read-error that fortunately the program
managed to skip itself. How?  

```sh
dd if=/dev/sdax bs=4K conv=sync,noerror | tee mybigfile.img | md5sum > mybigfile.md5
```

Using the `noerror`, `dd` managed to continue after hitting the I/O error.

Now that the image is created and I verified the md5 sum, the game starts.

Which tools to use?

I am quite familiar with both `foremost` and `scalpel`.
Despite the scarcity of documentation available online (maybe recovering files
is not a common hobby?) I could manage to use those programs pretty well.

`scalpel` is based on the first one and it required a little bit of tweaking in
order to make it work the way I wanted. It is necessary to specify in the
config file the files we need to look for. So, I need to scan for `odt` files,
how should I do it?
The configuration file, located in `/etc/scalpel/scalpel.conf` did not contain any info
about odt, so looking on the
[net](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1378119) I found this line to add 

```
odt y   20000000    PK????????????????????????????mimetypeapplication/vnd.oasis.opendocument.textPK META-INF/manifest.xmlPK???????????????
```

which worked flawlessly!

So the next command was:

```sh
sudo scalpel mybigfile.img -b -o /scalpel_recovered_files/
```

Some of the results were ok, others were false positives. 
I tried to `grep -l` to get some info from the files in the folders but I was
not lucky enough to find the complete version of the file I was looking for. 

So, why not trying with `foremost`?

This program differs from the one described before mainly because it is
possible via command line to specify which extensions we are targeting. The
`odt` extension does not exist *BUT* it is possible to search for `zip`. 

So the command

```sh
sudo foremost -v -T -t zip -i mybigfile.img -o /foremost_recovered_files/
```

automagically created the following structure in the output folder:

* zip
* xlsx
* sxi
* sxc
* sx
* pptx
* jar
* docx
* odt
* audit.txt

Pretty cool, isn't it?

So no extra tweaking to the configuration files is necessary in order to look
for odt!

By the way, if you want, by inserting the following string you could actually
look for `odt` as explained [here](http://www.cfitaly.net/it/carvingodt):

```
odt n 12500000 \x50\x4b\x03\x04 
```

To be continued...









